Table Topic Master/Topicsmaster - TTM Template

This template will help you understand the role of a TTM and the procedure of the meeting. You are free to get as creative as you can in terms of explaining the role.

It is ideal to base topics on the theme of the meeting 

Table topics master
TTM is the second segment of the meeting. Your role starts when the TOD hands over the stage to you.
 
When the TOD introduces you to conduct the Table Topics session:
Thank the TOD for the introduction and reiterate you are the table topic master for the day.

Explain what is TT, including timing each person will have to speak
Why do we have TTM? (to test our impromptu speaking skills and being spontaneous)
Explain how it is done (either give a technique or example to show people how it is done)
“Thank you Toastmaster …(name) for the unique introduction. Hello everyone, my name is … and I am your table topic master. You must be wondering what table topics is? The table topics segment in a Toastmasters meeting is an impromptu speaking segment where I will be reading out a topic and calling out one of the members from the audience to speak on it spontaneously. The time limit is 1-2 mins so for you to qualify for voting you need to speak a minimum of 1 minute and a maximum of 2 mins. The segment helps you think on your feet and makes you more spontaneous. One pro tip to crack the table topics is to use an example whenever you get a topic that will help you not run out of your words. Hope to see to ace this. Are we all ready for our first topic?

Who to call as table topics speaker?
Give a chance to those members who haven’t got stage time at all in the meeting.
 Preferably, first speaker should be a Toastmaster who has done TT before to show others how it is done.
Ask the guests if someone wants to volunteer to speak on stage, if not pick them randomly. (Take consent of first-timers - Ideal to ask them over a message before the TTM session if they are comfortable speaking)
If no-one else is left, then pick on Toastmasters who played the least role in the meeting like TAG team or SAA or Evaluators or External Toastmasters.
Avoid calling prepared speakers or TOD or GE as they get the most stage time in the meeting.

How to conduct the session?
Announce the topic.
Call out a person to speak on the topic
Repeat the topic again and then hand over the stage to them.
After each speaker is done speaking, talk about how you felt while listening to them or appreciate them or pick one interesting thing that you learnt from them and then move on to the next speaker for a smooth transition.
Ideal to call 6 - 8 table topics in a usual meeting.
After the session, thank the audience and hand over the stage back to TOD.

Note: 
Please call Non-role takers first, Don't call the GE, President, SAA, ToD, Speakers, and Evaluators. Call others who didn't get a chance to speak.
The first person you call should be someone pretty confident. The reason is it motivates others, especially the guest to seem like it’s easy.